# **_Types of Cyber Security_**
**_Cyber Security can be categorized into different types, each focusing on a different area of security._</p>**
**_<p>Here are some types of cyber security and what their functions are: </p>_**
+ **_<p>Network Security: Network Security is a field of cyber security concentrated on the protection of networks from various threats such as unauthorized traffic and data theft by cybercriminals. In order to make certain the shielding of networks, network security utilizes a variety of tools to deter threats and attacks. One example of these tools are firewalls, which acts as a barrier of entry for a network, filtering traffic that enters and exits a network. Another example of a tool used for network security is the intrustion prevention system (IPS), which acts as a wide reaching monitor for a network, continuously seeking out threats to a network and acting accordingly to prevent data theft, intrusions, or other attacks by malicious parties from occuring. </p>_**
+ **_<p>Cloud Security: This cyber security discipline centers on maintaining the integrity of cloud computing systems. Cloud security makes sure that cloud data is protected and inaccessible by unauthorized users. Furthermore, cloud security ensures that users are able to reliably access their applications and data without issue. As cloud computing becomes an increasingly used system by companies and buisnesses, safeguarding the data and infrastructure is of the upmost importance, and with cloud data be accessible from anywhere in the world, risks are abudant and proper counter protocols are necessary to handle any threat that may arise. </p>_** 
+ **_<p>Application Security: This area of cyber security focuses on introducing and maintaining the protection of applications with the goal of preventing potential threats from interfering, as well as identifying and reducing flaws. Application Security takes place over the course of an application's development process, detecting and solving issues when they initially arise as to prevent further problems at later points in the course of development. They are also several areas of Application Security, including mobile, web, and cloud application security. </p>_**
+ **_<p>Infrastructure Security: The goal of this type of cyber security is ensuring the protection and functionality of critical infrastructure on both a hardware and software level, which include data centers, network communications, and individual servers. Infrastructure security is of vital importance in today's world, as a successful attack or breach by malicious parties can have dire consequences. As concerns of cyberattacks are serious in this area, professionals are highly sought after in order to establishing a high level of protection and stability to critical infrastructure. </p>_**
+ **_<p>IoT Security: Internet of Things or IoT security is the protection of Iot devices and their associated networks. The Internet of Things encompasses physical objects that possess technological properties and are connected to other similar objects. Some examples of IoT devices include smart phones, smart home security, motion detectors, and key fobs for cars. The type of cyber security involving IoT concerns protecting the physical devices from attacks and identifying vunerabilities in order maintain the interconnectivity of the Internet of Things. With the the rapid implementation of the Internet of Things across a wide range of industries, IoT security is becoming increasingly more important, as concerns over hacking by malicious parties demand a effective counter which this type of security offers.</p>_**

**_Links to other pages:_**

[<em>Homepage</em>](README.md)\
[<em>What is Cyber Security</em>](WhatIsCyberSecurity.md)\
[<em>Why is Cyber Security Important? </em>](WhyIsItImportant.md)\
[<em>Jobs in Cyber Security?</em>](Jobs.md)
